clrs4xlyw000009l005ty9rp9.md, before:

---
title: "The Best Piece Of Advice I Was Given About Coding Interviews As A Junior Developer Looking For My First Job"
datePublished: Wed Jan 24 2024 18:45:08 GMT+0000 (Coordinated Universal Time)
cuid: clrs4xlyw000009l005ty9rp9
slug: the-best-piece-of-advice-i-was-given-about-coding-interviews-as-a-junior-developer-looking-for-my-first-job
cover: https://cdn.hashnode.com/res/hashnode/image/upload/v1706121843868/4e0f563e-fe6d-4700-84ac-1de3432a6b2d.jpeg
tags: interview, advice, beginners, leetcode

---

In 2017, I was **failing** all my coding interviews.

I wanted to land a job at a high-tech company. So, I would spend hours practicing on *LeetCode*. Still, I would fail to solve any new problem or, worse, fail at problems I've already solved before.

Until one day, a **Google** software engineer said to me:

## "You can't succeed without first understanding Data Structures & Algorithms."

That day, my whole life changed.

I realized that, indeed, he was right. Since I didn't have a proper CS degree, I wasn't comfortable with data structures like *trees*, *priority queues*, or algorithms like *DFS* (Depth-First Search), *BFS* (Breadth-First Search), etc.

So I decided to pick up a book: ***"Introduction to Algorithms, MIT Press"*** and go through it during my entire holiday break.

This was another AHA moment. After reading this book:

* I could finally make sense of `big O` notation
    
* I could solve a ton of problems with `DFS`, `BFS`,...
    
* etc.
    

I also realized that there were some common patterns for solving problems. Thus, just learning one opened the door to solving multiple challenges.

As a **result**, I was able to:

* pass several interviews at companies like Bloomberg, Yelp
    
* get a job offer at Pinterest, where I actually had to solve a *tree* problem 🤣
    
* and more importantly, land my current job
    

——

Thank you for reading this post 🙏.

Leave a comment 📩 to share the best piece of advice you received as a developer.

And Don't forget to Drop a "💖🦄🔥".

If you like articles like this, join my **FREE** newsletter, [**FrontendJoy**](https://frontendjoy.substack.com/), or find me on [X/Twitter](https://twitter.com/_ndeyefatoudiop).

Commit message:

update post: The Best Piece Of Advice I Was Given About Coding Interviews As A Junior Developer And How It Helped Me Land My First Job

clrs4xlyw000009l005ty9rp9.md, after:

---
title: "The Best Piece Of Advice I Was Given About Coding Interviews As A Junior Developer And How It Helped Me Land My First Job"
datePublished: Wed Jan 24 2024 18:45:08 GMT+0000 (Coordinated Universal Time)
cuid: clrs4xlyw000009l005ty9rp9
slug: the-best-piece-of-advice-i-was-given-about-coding-interviews-as-a-junior-developer-and-how-it-helped-me-land-my-first-job
cover: https://cdn.hashnode.com/res/hashnode/image/upload/v1706121843868/4e0f563e-fe6d-4700-84ac-1de3432a6b2d.jpeg
tags: interview, advice, beginners, leetcode

---

In 2017, I was **failing** all my coding interviews.

I wanted to land a job at a high-tech company. So, I would spend hours practicing on *LeetCode*. Still, I would fail to solve any new problem or, worse, fail at problems I've already solved before.

Until one day, a **Google** software engineer said to me:

## "You can't succeed without first understanding Data Structures & Algorithms."

That day, my whole life changed.

I realized that, indeed, he was right. Since I didn't have a proper CS degree, I wasn't comfortable with data structures like *trees*, *priority queues*, or algorithms like *DFS* (Depth-First Search), *BFS* (Breadth-First Search), etc.

So I decided to pick up a book: ***"Introduction to Algorithms, MIT Press"*** and go through it during my entire holiday break.

This was another AHA moment. After reading this book:

* I could finally make sense of `big O` notation
    
* I could solve a ton of problems with `DFS`, `BFS`,...
    
* etc.
    

I also realized that there were some common patterns for solving problems. Thus, just learning one opened the door to solving multiple challenges.

As a **result**, I was able to:

* pass several interviews at companies like Bloomberg, Yelp
    
* get a job offer at Pinterest, where I actually had to solve a *tree* problem 🤣
    
* and more importantly, land my current job
    

——

Thank you for reading this post 🙏.

Leave a comment 📩 to share the best piece of advice you received as a developer.

And Don't forget to Drop a "💖🦄🔥".

If you like articles like this, join my **FREE** newsletter, [**FrontendJoy**](https://frontendjoy.substack.com/), or find me on [X/Twitter](https://twitter.com/_ndeyefatoudiop).
